[Documentation] Deploy Worker and Udf Binaries (#329)
dotnet/spark: docs/deploy-worker-udf-binaries.md

# Deploy Worker and UDF Binaries General Instruction

> This documentation will describe how to deploy Worker and UDF (User Defined Function) binaries, which Environment Variable to set up and some commonly used options when launching applications with `spark-submit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This how-to describes how to deploy Worker and UDF (User-Defined Function) binaries, including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters when launching applications with `spark-submit`.
```

Author: Thanks for your suggestion. But `how-to describes how to...` seems like a bit unclear for me.

Reviewer: It seems that our end-goal with these docs is to incorporate them all to the main dotnet/docs repo. I agree the wording here currently is good too! My suggestion was just to mimic the style found in official [how-to guides](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/spark/how-to-guides/debug). 

@rapoth Do we want the docs on here to have the same wording as those that'll be on the official docs page?

Author: Cool, you are right. It's better to follow the official guides. My understanding is that all these docs will move to dotnet/docs eventually. How about the following?
```suggestion
This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy Worker and UDF (User-Defined Function) binaries, including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters when launching applications with `spark-submit`.
```

Reviewer: I think that sounds great!

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer: This is a pretty concise guide, do we need a table of contents?

Author: Yep, I was also thinking about these. I think table of contents will be useful if we have more FAQs in the future. But I am happy to remove it for now. Thanks

- [Configurations](#configurations)
  - [Environment Variables](#1-environment-variables)
  - [Parameter Options](#2-parameter-options)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](#faq)

## Configurations

### 1. Environment Variables

> Please see the commonly used environment variables as below when deploying worker and writing udfs. 

Reviewer 2: Can we change this to something like: Please make sure the following (relevant) environment variables are set accordingly when deploying worker binaries....?

Author: How about this?
```suggestion
Please see the commonly used environment variables as below when deploying worker and writing udfs. And make sure these environment variables are set accordingly.
```

> Please see the commonly used environment variables as below when deploying worker and writing udfs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying workers and writing UDFs, there are a few commonly used environment variables that you may need to set: 
```

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="25%"><b>Environment Variable</b></td>
    <td width="75%"><b>Description</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_WORKER_DIR</b></td>
    <td>Path where the <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> binary has been generated.</br>It's used by the Spark driver and will be passed to Spark executors. If this variable is not set up, the Spark executors will search the path specified in the <code>PATH</code> environment variable.</br><i>e.g. "C:\bin\Microsoft.Spark.Worker-0.6.0"</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS</b></td>
    <td>Comma-separated paths where <code>Microsoft.Spark.Worker</code> will load assemblies.</br>Note that if a path starts with ".", the working directory will be prepended. If in <b>yarn mode</b>, "." would represent the container's working directory.</br><i>e.g. "C:\Users\&lt;user name&gt;\&lt;mysparkapp&gt;\bin\Debug\&lt;dotnet version&gt;"</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>DOTNET_WORKER_DEBUG</b></td>

>     <td>If you want to <a href="https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/developer-guide.md#debugging-user-defined-function-udf">debug UDF</a>, then set this environmnet variable to <code>1</code> before running <code>spark-submit</code>.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>If you want to <a href="https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/developer-guide.md#debugging-user-defined-function-udf">debug a UDF</a>, then set this environment variable to <code>1</code> before running <code>spark-submit</code>.</td>
```

  </tr>
</table>

### 2. Parameter Options

> Once the spark application is bundled, you can launch it using `spark-submit`. The following table shows some of the commonly used options. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Spark application is bundled, you can launch it using `spark-submit`. The following table shows some of the commonly used options. 
```

Also, what does "bundled" mean? How can a user know if their app has been bundled? Is there a link or definition we can provide?

Author: Thanks for your suggestion. Added link

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="25%"><b>Parameter Name</b></td>
    <td width="75%"><b>Description</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--class</b></td>

>       <td>The entry point for your application <i>e.g. org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner</i></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <td>The entry point for your application </br><i>e.g. org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner</i></td>
```

Consider putting the examples on their own line for consistency/potentially making it a bit easier to read.

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--master</b></td>

>     <td>The <a href="https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html#master-urls">master URL</a> for the cluster <i>e.g. yarn</i></td>

Reviewer: Consider putting e.g. on its own line (put break before it)

Author: Added. Thanks

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--deploy-mode</b></td>

>     <td>Whether to deploy your driver on the worker nodes (<code>cluster</code>) or locally as an external client (<code>client</code>). Default: <code>client</code></td>

Reviewer: Consider putting the default on its own line (put break before it)

Author: Added. So in general, I put break before long examples but not short examples to keep it concise. But it's good to put break before e.g. to make it more clear. Thanks for your suggestions!

Reviewer: No problem, thank you for the great doc write-up!

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--conf</b></td>
      <td>Arbitrary Spark configuration property in <code>key=value</code> format.</br><i>e.g. spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_WORKER_DIR=.\worker\Microsoft.Spark.Worker-0.6.0</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--files</b></td>
    <td>Comma-separated list of files to be placed in the working directory of each executor.</br>
      <li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li>
      <li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br>
      <i>e.g. <code>myLocalSparkApp.dll#appSeen.dll</code>. Your application should use the name as <code>appSeen.dll</code> to reference <code>myLocalSparkApp.dll</code> when running on YARN.</i></li></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--archives</b></td>

>     <td>Comma separated list of archives to be extracted into the working directory of each executor.</br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Comma-separated list of archives to be extracted into the working directory of each executor.</br>
```

Author: Added

      <li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li>
      <li>It supports specifying file names with # similar to Hadoop.</br>
      <i>e.g. <code>hdfs://&lt;path to your worker file&gt;/Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-0.6.0.zip#worker</code>. This will copy and extract the zip file to <code>worker</code> folder.</i></li></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>application-jar</b></td>

>     <td>Path to a bundled jar including your application and all dependencies.</br>

Author: This is a more generic description of this parameter. To apply our `microsoft-spark-2.x.x-version.jar` in the example. I think this should be clear?

    <i>e.g. hdfs://&lt;path to your jar&gt;/microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><b>application-arguments</b></td>

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we want to add application executable here as well. Also wondering if we want to mention the spark application jar, user application and arguments in the same table as parameters (which are parameters to the spark-submit command), whereas these are arguments to our DotnetRunner class.

Author: Thanks for your suggestions! I have added an example to make this more clear.

>     <td>Arguments passed to the main method of your main class if any</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Arguments passed to the main method of your main class, if any.</td>
```

Author: Added

  </tr>
</table>

> > Note: Please specify all the `--options` before `application-jar` when launching applications with `spark-submit` otherwise they will be ignored. Please see more `spark-submit` options [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and running spark on YARN details [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Please specify all the `--options` before `application-jar` when launching applications with `spark-submit`, otherwise they will be ignored. Please see more `spark-submit` options [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and running spark on YARN details [here](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html).
```

Author: Added

## FAQ
#### 1. Question: When I run a spark app with UDFs, I get the following error. What should I do?
> **Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.IO.FileNotFoundException: Assembly 'mySparkApp, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=null' file not found: 'mySparkApp.dll'

> **Answer:** Please check if the `DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS` environment variable is set correctly. It should be the path where contains your 'mySparkApp.dll'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Please check if the `DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS` environment variable is set correctly. It should be the path that contains your `mySparkApp.dll`.
```

> #### 2. Question: After I upgrade my Spark Dotnet version, and reset `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` environment variable. Why I still get the following error?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2. Question: After I upgraded my Spark Dotnet version and reset the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` environment variable, why do I still get the following error?
```

> **Error:** Lost task 0.0 in stage 11.0 (TID 24, localhost, executor driver): java.io.IOException: Cannot run program "Microsoft.Spark.Worker.exe": CreateProcess error=2, The system cannot find the file specified.

> **Answer:** Please try to restart your powershell window (or other command windows) first to take the latest environment variable values. And then start your program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Please try restarting your PowerShell window (or other command windows) first so that it can take the latest environment variable values. Then start your program.
```

> #### 3. Question: After submitting my spark application, I got the error of `System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 3. Question: After submitting my Spark application, I get the error `System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context'`.
```

> **Command:** %SPARK_HOME%\bin\spark-submit --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner --master local microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar  mySparkApp.exe</br>
**Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context' from assembly 'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=...'.

> **Answer:** Please check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. We currently provide two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-0.6.0` (you can download it [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Context.Context` is only for .NET Framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Answer:** Please check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. We currently provide two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-0.6.0` (which you can download [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Context.Context` is only for .NET Framework.
```

Author: Good catch! Change it to `Contexts.Context` refer to error message. And I have updated the doc to resolve all the comments. Thanks!

# Deploy Worker and UDF Binaries General Instruction

> This how-to provides general instructions on how to deploy Worker and UDF (User-Defined Function) binaries, including which Environment Variables to set up and some commonly used parameters when launching applications with `spark-submit`.

Author: Thanks for your suggestion! Changed.

## Configurations

### 1. Environment Variables
When deploying workers and writing UDFs, there are a few commonly used environment variables that you may need to set: 

> <table>

Author: I actually checked out `GitHub markdown tables`, but I could not change column width. So I decide to use `HTML tables` for better formatting. Thanks.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="25%"><b>Parameter Name</b></td>
    <td width="75%"><b>Description</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--class</b></td>
      <td>The entry point for your application.</br><i>e.g. org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--master</b></td>
    <td>The <a href="https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html#master-urls">master URL</a> for the cluster.</br><i>e.g. yarn</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--deploy-mode</b></td>
    <td>Whether to deploy your driver on the worker nodes (<code>cluster</code>) or locally as an external client (<code>client</code>).</br>Default: <code>client</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--conf</b></td>
      <td>Arbitrary Spark configuration property in <code>key=value</code> format.</br><i>e.g. spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_WORKER_DIR=.\worker\Microsoft.Spark.Worker-0.6.0</i></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>--files</b></td>
    <td>Comma-separated list of files to be placed in the working directory of each executor.</br>

>       <li>Please note that this option is only applicable for yarn mode.</li>

Reviewer 3: `<li>` inside `<td>` is invalid HTML.  Make sure the `<li>` items are wrapped with a `<ul>`.

Author: Added. Thanks

**Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context' from assembly 'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=...'.

**Answer:** Please check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. We currently provide two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-0.6.0` (which you can download [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context` is only for .NET Framework.

#### 4. Question: How to run my spark application with UDFs on YARN? Which environment variables and parameters should I use?

**Answer:** To launch the spark application on YARN, the environment variables should be specified as `spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.[EnvironmentVariableName]`. Please see below as an example using `spark-submit`:
```shell
spark-submit \
--class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode cluster \

> --conf spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_WORKER_DIR=.\worker\Microsoft.Spark.Worker-0.6.0 \

Reviewer 4: can we use `/` instead of `\` in this example?

Author: Sure, I have updated to `/`. Thanks.

Reviewer 4: no, not the end of line, but file path like `.\worker\Microsoft.Spark.Worker.0.6.0`

#### 2. Question: After I upgraded my Spark Dotnet version and reset the `DOTNET_WORKER_DIR` environment variable, why do I still get the following error?
> **Error:** Lost task 0.0 in stage 11.0 (TID 24, localhost, executor driver): java.io.IOException: Cannot run program "Microsoft.Spark.Worker.exe": CreateProcess error=2, The system cannot find the file specified.

**Answer:** Please try restarting your PowerShell window (or other command windows) first so that it can take the latest environment variable values. Then start your program.

#### 3. Question: After submitting my Spark application, I get the error `System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context'`.
> **Command:** %SPARK_HOME%\bin\spark-submit --class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner --master local microsoft-spark-2.4.x-0.6.0.jar  mySparkApp.exe</br>
**Error:** [ ] [ ] [Error] [TaskRunner] [0] ProcessStream() failed with exception: System.TypeLoadException: Could not load type 'System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context' from assembly 'mscorlib, Version=4.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=...'.

> **Answer:** Please check the `Microsoft.Spark.Worker` version you are using. We currently provide two versions: **.NET Framework 4.6.1** and **.NET Core 2.1.x**. In this case, `Microsoft.Spark.Worker.net461.win-x64-0.6.0` (which you can download [here](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/releases)) should be used since `System.Runtime.Remoting.Contexts.Context` is only for .NET Framework.

Reviewer 2: I think we also support .NET Core 3.0 Preview. @imback82 Can you please confirm?

Reviewer 4: No, not yet. #291

Reviewer 2: I saw in the Pre-requisites section of docs/building/ubuntu-instructions.md, .NET Core 3.0 Preview mentioned so was wondering. Thanks for clarifiying!
